Welcome to part two. In case you missed
part one, hit pause and watch that
first. But if you're ready to learn
faster, focus better, and actually
remember what you study, let's jump
straight in, and make sure to watch
until the end because the last tip might
just change how you study forever. Tip
one, the forgetting curve is real. Most
students forget 70% of what they learn
within a day. Not because you're lazy,
but because your brain is wired to
forget fast. It's called the forgetting
curve. And the fix is simple. Spaced
repetition. Here's how it works. Study
today. Review it again tomorrow, then 3
days later, then a week. Each time, your
brain strengthens the memory. Like
rewelding steel. Instead of studying
something five times in one night, space
it out. You'll remember more by doing
less. Tip two, the blurting method. This
one's underrated but powerful. It's
called blurting. Grab a blank page, no
notes. Now, write down everything you
remember about a topic. Just blurt it
out. Don't overthink. Don't worry about
being neat. Then go back and check what
you missed. That gap, that's your weak
spot. Now you know exactly where to
focus. Blurting turns studying from
guessing into precision. Tip three, stop
studying in silence. Silence seems
productive, but total quiet can make
your brain drift. Here's the science.
Your brain stays more alert with gentle
stimulation. Instead of music, try brown
noise, white noise, or binaural beats.
They keep your mind anchored without
distracting it. Test it out. Brown noise
on YouTube plus one 25minut session
equals surprise focus boost. This isn't
a vibe. It's a strategy. Tip four, brain
dump before bed. Ever try to sleep
before a test and your brain won't shut
up? Fix it with a brain dump. Before
bed, write down everything on your mind,
worries, reminders, even things you
think you'll forget. Get it out of your
head and onto paper. This clears mental
clutter and lets your brain actually
process what you learned that day. It's
like taking out the mental trash before
sleep. Tip five, reward first, not
after. Most people study first, reward
later. But your brain craves instant
gratification. So flip it. Set the scene
before you study. Light a candle. Make
your favorite drink. Sit in your
comfiest chair. Build a routine your
brain looks forward to. This way,
studying becomes something you enjoy,
not something you suffer through. The
trick isn't discipline, it's design. And
now the final tip. Tip six, know how you
learn. Everyone tells you what to study.
No one tells you how your brain likes to
learn. Are you visual? Draw diagrams.
Turn notes into mind maps. Auditory?
Explain it out loud. Record and replay.
Kinesthetic? Learn by doing. Write it.
Build it. Move around. Most students
fail because they copy someone else's
method. But when you study in your own
style, things finally start to click.
That's the real unlock. So now you've
got six more study hacks, and they're
all backed by real science. If you
combine these hacks with the ones from
part one, you won't just study better,
you'll remember better,